Feature/block10 Provision EKS environment pipeline (#32)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/azure-devops/setup-eks-provisioning-pipeline.asciidoc

```
aws s3 mb <bucket name>
# Example: aws s3 mb s3://terraformStateBucket
```

* An AWS IAM user with https://github.com/devonfw/hangar/blob/master/documentation/aws/setup-aws-account-iam-for-eks.asciidoc#check-iam-user-permissions[required permissions] to provision the EKS cluster.

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

== Creating the pipeline using provided script

Before executing the pipeline generator, you will need to customize some input variables about the environment. Also, you may want to use existing VPC and subnets instead of creating new ones. To do so, you can either edit `terraform.tfvars` file or take advantage of the `set-terraform-variables.sh` script located at `/scripts/environment-provisioning/aws/eks`, which allows you to create or update values for the required variables, passing them as flags.

> Examples:
> 
> ```
> ./set-terraform-variables.sh --region <region name> --instance_type <instance type> --vpc_name <vpc name> --vpc_cidr_block <vpc_cidr_block>
> ```
> Example to reuse existing VPC and subnets
> ```
> ./set-terraform-variables.sh --region <region name> --instance_type <instance type> --existing_vpc_id <existing vpc id> --existing_vpc_private_subnets <existing VPC private subnets>
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Example: creating a new VPC on cluster creation:

```
./set-terraform-variables.sh --region <region name> --instance_type <workers instance type> --vpc_name <vpc name> --vpc_cidr_block <vpc cidr block>
```
Example: reusing existing VPC and subnets:
```
./set-terraform-variables.sh --region <region name> --instance_type <workers instance type> --existing_vpc_id <vpc id> --existing_vpc_private_subnets <array of subnet ids>
```
````

```

=== Example

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg -n eks-provisioning -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --cluster-name hangar-eks-cluster --s3-bucket terraformStateBucket --s3-key-path eks/state -b develop -w
```
CAUTION: Remember to write the path to the local repository with '/' and not '\' on Windows.

== Appendix: Interacting with the cluster

First, generate a `kubeconfig` file for accessing the AWS EKS cluster:

```
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name <eks-cluster-name> --region <aws region>
```
Now you can use `kubectl` tool to communicate with the cluster.

To enable an IAM user to connect to the EKS cluster, please refer https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/add-user-role.html[here].

To get the DNS name of the NGINX Ingress controller on the EKS cluster, run the below command:
```
kubectl get svc --namespace nginx-ingress nginx-ingress-nginx-ingress-controller -o jsonpath={.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}
```
```
Example DNS Name - https://aa9e8f0434d934c939be841f1de52a09-1657056367.eu-west-1.elb.amazonaws.com/dashboard
```
== Appendix: Rancher resources

> •	Refer https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.5/en/cluster-admin/cluster-access/kubectl/ to download Kubeconfig.
> •	To use RBAC in Rancher refer https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.5/en/admin-settings/rbac/default-custom-roles/
> •	Monitoring - https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.5/en/monitoring-alerting/
> •	Logging - https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.0-v2.4/en/cluster-admin/tools/cluster-logging/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.6/en/cluster-admin/cluster-access/kubectl/[Downloading `kubeconfig`].
* https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.6/en/admin-settings/rbac/[RBAC]
* https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.6/en/monitoring-alerting/[Monitoring]
* https://rancher.com/docs/rancher/v2.6/en/logging/[Logging]
```

* Verify if the AWS IAM user has https://github.com/devonfw/hangar/blob/master/documentation/aws/setup-aws-account-iam-for-eks.asciidoc#check-iam-user-permissions[required permissions] to provision the EKS cluster.

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

== Creating the pipeline using provided script

* The script will by default create a new AWS VPC with name `k8s-vpc`. However, if you wish to provision AWS EKS in your existing `VPC` please edit `existing_vpc_id` and `existing_vpc_private_subnets` with respective values.
* Before executing the script you will need to customize some input variables about the environment. To do so, you can either edit `terraform.tfvars` file or take advantage of the `setTerraformVariables.sh` script, which allows you to create or update values for the required variables, passing them as flags. As an example

```

> ./setTerraformVariables.sh --region <region name> --instance_type <instance type> --vpc_name <vpc name> --vpc_cidr_block <vpc_cidr_block>

Reviewer: Rename to `set-terraform-variables.sh`

```

> * The script installs Rancher on the cluster after provisioning. However before executing the script, please edit the config file `eks-pipeline.cfg` to disable rancher installation. 

Author: Done

=== Usage
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <pipeline name> \
  --s3-bucket <s3 bucket name> \
  --s3-key-path <s3 key path> \
  --cluster-name <clusterName> \  
  -d <project local path> \
  [-b <branch>] \
  [-w]
```

> NOTE: The config file for the EKS provisioning pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg`.

Author: This path is right.

> NOTE: The config file for the EKS provisioning pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg`.

Reviewer: Sorry, my bad.

> NOTE: The config file for the EKS provisioning pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg`.

Author: No problem

```
-c, --config-file        [Required] Configuration file containing pipeline definition.
-n, --pipeline-name      [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.
    --s3-bucket          [Required] Name of the AWS S3 bucket where tfstate file of the cluster will be stored.
    --s3-key-path        [Required] Path in the AWS S3 bucket where tfstate file of the cluster will be stored.
    --cluster-name       [Required] Name of the EKS cluster."    
-d, --local-directory    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').
-b, --target-branch                 Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
-w                                  Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.
```

=== Example

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg -n eks-provisioning --s3-bucket terraformStateBucket --s3-key-path eks/state -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project -b develop --cluster-name hangar-eks-cluster -w
```
CAUTION: Remember to write the path to the local repository with '/' and not '\' on Windows.

> After successfull execution of the script, EKS cluster is provisioned. And also a variable group with the name `eks-variables` is created. This contains the DNS name of the nginx ingress controller deployed on the EKS cluster. The DNS name may be used in the application ingress manifest files.
> 
> Rancher can be accessed at the DNS name of the nginx ingress controller. Refer the appendix to retrieve the DNS name from the nginx ingress controller. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> Example DNS Name - https://aa9e8f0434d934c939be841f1de52a09-1657056367.eu-west-1.elb.amazonaws.com/dashboard

Reviewer: This is example doesn't belong here but could be in the appendix.

Author: Moved to appendix. Done.

=== Flags
```
-c, --config-file        [Required] Configuration file containing pipeline definition.
-n, --pipeline-name      [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.
-d, --local-directory    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').
    --cluster-name       [Required] Name for the cluster."
    --s3-bucket          [Required] Name of the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.
    --s3-key-path        [Required] Path within the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.
-b, --target-branch                 Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
-w                                  Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.
```

=== Example

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg -n eks-provisioning -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --cluster-name hangar-eks-cluster --s3-bucket terraformStateBucket --s3-key-path eks/state -b develop -w
```

> CAUTION: Remember to write the path to the local repository with '/' and not '\' on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
* Rancher is installed by default on the cluster after provisioning. If you wish to change this, please update `eks-pipeline.cfg` accordingly.

=== Usage
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <pipeline name> \
  -d <project local path> \
  --cluster-name <cluster name> \  
  --s3-bucket <s3 bucket name> \
  --s3-key-path <s3 key path> \
  [-b <branch>] \
  [-w]
```

NOTE: The config file for the EKS provisioning pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg`.

=== Flags
```
-c, --config-file        [Required] Configuration file containing pipeline definition.
-n, --pipeline-name      [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.
-d, --local-directory    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').
    --cluster-name       [Required] Name for the cluster."
    --s3-bucket          [Required] Name of the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.
    --s3-key-path        [Required] Path within the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.

>     --cluster-operation             Operation to be performed on EKS cluster to create or destroy it. Default is create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:toc: macro
toc::[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

= Setting up the AWS EKS provisioning pipeline

> In this section we will create a pipeline which will provision AWS EKS. This pipeline will be configured to be manually triggered by the user. As part of EKS cluster provisioning, an NGINX Ingress controller is deployed and a variable group with the name `eks-variables` is created, which contains, among others, the DNS name of the Ingress controller, that you you will need to add as CNAME record on the domains used in your application Ingress manifest files. Refer the appendix to retrieve the DNS name of the ingress controller independently. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we will create a pipeline which will provision an AWS EKS cluster. This pipeline will be configured to be manually triggered by the user. As part of EKS cluster provisioning, an NGINX Ingress controller is deployed and a variable group with the name `eks-variables` is created, which contains, among others, the DNS name of the Ingress controller, that you you will need to add as CNAME record on the domains used in your application Ingress manifest files. Refer the appendix to retrieve the DNS name of the ingress controller independently. 
```

The creation of the pipeline will follow the project workflow, so a new branch named `feature/eks-provisioning` will be created, the YAML file for the pipeline and the terraform files for creating the cluster will be pushed to it.

Then, a Pull Request (PR) will be created in order to merge the new branch into the appropiate branch (provided in `-b` flag). The PR will be automatically merged if the repository policies are met. If the merge is not possible, either the PR URL will be shown as output, or it will be opened in your web browser if using `-w` flag.

The script located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/pipeline_generator.sh` will automatically create this new branch, create the EKS provisioning pipeline based on the YAML template, create the Pull Request and, if it is possible, merge this new branch into the specified branch.

=== Prerequisites

* Install the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-devlabs.custom-terraform-tasks[Terraform extension] for Azure DevOps.

> * Create a https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/library/service-endpoints?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml#create-a-service-connection[service connection] and name it `AWS-Terraform-Connection`. If you already have a service connection available or you need a specific connection name, please update `eks-pipeline.cfg` accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a service connection for connecting to an AWS account (as explained in the above Terraform extension link) and name it `AWS-Terraform-Connection`. If you already have a service connection available or you need a specific connection name, please update `eks-pipeline.cfg` accordingly.
```

* A S3 Bucket. You can use an existing one or https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-services-s3-commands.html#using-s3-commands-managing-buckets-creating[create a new one] with the following command:
```
aws s3 mb <bucket name>
# Example: aws s3 mb s3://terraformStateBucket
```

* An AWS IAM user with https://github.com/devonfw/hangar/blob/master/documentation/aws/setup-aws-account-iam-for-eks.asciidoc#check-iam-user-permissions[required permissions] to provision the EKS cluster.

* This script will commit and push the corresponding YAML template into your repository, so please be sure your local repository is up-to-date (i.e you have pulled the latest changes with `git pull`).

== Creating the pipeline using provided script

> Before executing the pipeline generator, you will need to customize some input variables about the environment. Also, you may want to use existing VPC and subnets instead of creating new ones. To do so, you can either edit `terraform.tfvars` file or take advantage of the `setTerraformVariables.sh` script, which allows you to create or update values for the required variables, passing them as flags.

Reviewer: We don't mention anywhere where are those files,

> Before executing the pipeline generator, you will need to customize some input variables about the environment. Also, you may want to use existing VPC and subnets instead of creating new ones. To do so, you can either edit `terraform.tfvars` file or take advantage of the `setTerraformVariables.sh` script located at `/scripts/environment-provisioning/aws/eks`, which allows you to create or update values for the required variables, passing them as flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before executing the pipeline generator, you will need to customize some input variables about the environment. Also, you may want to use existing VPC and subnets instead of creating new ones. To do so, you can either edit `terraform.tfvars` file or take advantage of the `set-terraform-variables.sh` script located at `/scripts/environment-provisioning/aws/eks`, which allows you to create or update values for the required variables, passing them as flags.
```

Examples:

```
./setTerraformVariables.sh --region <region name> --instance_type <instance type> --vpc_name <vpc name> --vpc_cidr_block <vpc_cidr_block>
```
* The script installs Rancher on the cluster after provisioning. If you wish to change this, please update `eks-pipeline.cfg` accordingly.

=== Usage
```
pipeline_generator.sh \
  -c <config file path> \
  -n <pipeline name> \
  -d <project local path> \
  --cluster-name <cluster name> \  
  --s3-bucket <s3 bucket name> \
  --s3-key-path <s3 key path> \
  [-b <branch>] \
  [-w]
```

NOTE: The config file for the EKS provisioning pipeline is located at `/scripts/pipelines/azure-devops/templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg`.

=== Flags
```
-c, --config-file        [Required] Configuration file containing pipeline definition.
-n, --pipeline-name      [Required] Name that will be set to the pipeline.

>     --cluster-name       [Required] Name for the cluster."
>     --s3-bucket          [Required] Name of the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.
>     --s3-key-path        [Required] Path within the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.
> -d, --local-directory    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-d, --local-directory    [Required] Local directory of your project (the path should always be using '/' and not '\').
    --cluster-name       [Required] Name for the cluster."
    --s3-bucket          [Required] Name of the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.
    --s3-key-path        [Required] Path within the S3 bucket where the Terraform state of the cluster will be stored.
```

-b, --target-branch                 Name of the branch to which the Pull Request will target. PR is not created if the flag is not provided.
-w                                  Open the Pull Request on the web browser if it cannot be automatically merged. Requires -b flag.
```

=== Example

```
./pipeline_generator.sh -c ./templates/eks/eks-pipeline.cfg -n eks-provisioning -d C:/Users/$USERNAME/Desktop/quarkus-project --cluster-name hangar-eks-cluster --s3-bucket terraformStateBucket --s3-key-path eks/state -b develop -w
```
CAUTION: Remember to write the path to the local repository with '/' and not '\' on Windows.

== Appendix: Interacting with the cluster

> Run the below command to connect to the AWS EKS cluster from your terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, generate a kubeconfig for accessing the AWS EKS cluster:
```

```
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name <eks-cluster-name> --region <aws region>
```
Now you can use `kubectl` tool to communicate with the cluster.

To enable an IAM user to connect to the EKS cluster, please refer https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/add-user-role.html[here].

> To get the DNS name of the nginx ingress controller from the EKS cluster, run the below command from your terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the DNS name of the NGINX Ingress controller on the EKS cluster, run the below command:
```
